Here are some easy methods to get XPath.



1- Google Chrome
Open the web page in Google Chrome.
Select the text portion you want to extract.
Right-click, and select "Inspect".
Select the HTML code you need, and select "Copy" and then "Copy XPath".
Paste the XPath to your code, test, and edit it, if necessary.
Note that this method copy the "id" but you can change it to the "class" of the same portion if that will work better.






2- XPath Helper (Chrome Extension)
Install XPath Helper Chrome extension (link). Restart Chrome.
Open a new tab and navigate to any webpage.
To open the XPath Helper console, click the XPath Helper button in the toolbar or press Ctrl-Shift-X (or Command-Shift-X on OS X).
Move your mouse over the portion you want to extract, and hold down Shift. The query box will show the XPath query for the element below the mouse pointer.
Note that it extracts the full XPath which you can use as is, or you can delete the first part and replace it with an extra slash.
You can edit the XPath query directly in the console. The results box will immediately reflect your changes.




3 - FireBug (Firefox Extension)
Install FireBug Firefox extension (link). Restart Firefox. (Note: It is deprecated, but still useful for finding XPath)
Select the text portion you want to extract.
Right-click, and select "Inspect in Element with FireBug".
Select the HTML code you need, and select "Copy XPath".
Paste the XPath to your code, test, and edit it, if necessary.





4 - FirePath (Firefox Extension)
You can use FirePath, which is a Firebug extension that adds a development tool to generate XPath. Sometimes, it is easier and more accurate to use it.

Install FireBug Firefox extension (link); it is a perquisite to install FirePath.
Install FirePath Firefox extension (link). Restart FireFox.
Select the text portion you want to extract.
Right-click, and select "Inspect in FirePath".
The XPath is shown in the dedicated box.
Copy the XPath and paste it to your code, test, and edit it, if necessary.








5 - XPath Tester
It is to write your XPath strings and try it.

Open XPath Tester (link).
Copy paste the HTML source code into the first field "XML Input".
Type your XPath in the field "XPath expression".
Click the button "TEST XPATH".
Check the result.


Go ahead and try these options, and if you have questions, please send them to the Q&A section - I will be more than happy to help you.



from scrapy.selector import Selector
sel = selector(text=html_doc)
sel.extract()
sel.xpath('/html/head/title')
sel.xpath('/html/head/title').extract()
sel.xpath('//text()').extract()
sel.xpath('//p')[0].extract()

